Winamp has a built-in minibrowser to show information about songs being played
(enabled by default). For every song that is being played under Winamp, the
program will direct the minibrowser to an URL of the sorts of:
http://info.winamp.com/winamp/WA.html?Alb=&Art=&Cid=winamp&Tid=&Track=Brick.
Where Winamp will get the title/artist/album information from the ID3v1/ID3v2
tag in the MP3 file.
A problem in the program has been found that allows attackers to include HTML
tags in these fields (title/artist/album) causing the program to execute
malicious HTML and JavaScript code. This vulnerability is effectively a Cross
Site Scripting vulnerability..

The InterNetNews package (INN) is a complete Usenet system. It includes innd, an
NNTP server, and nnrpd, a news-reading server. INN separates hosts that feed
you news from those that have users reading news. Several security
vulnerabilities have been found in the product that allows attackers to cause
the program to execute arbitrary code.

LogWatch is a customizable, pluggable log-monitoring system. It will go through
your logs for a given period and make a report in the areas that you wish with
the detail that you wish. Easy to use - works right out of the package on
almost all systems. A race condition in the product can be used by local
attackers to gain root privileges. The following is an explanation on how to
exploit the vulnerability through the SSH daemon (and FTPd).

The program /usr/bin/mail is a simple mail user agent that can be used also in
the batch mode, for example to send mail to the administrator when running cron
tasks. There is a local root compromise in all versions of OpenBSD including
OpenBSD Current prior to April 9, 2002 due to a bug in program /usr/bin/mail.
The following is an exploit code that can be used by administrators to verify
whether they are vulnerable or not.
For additional information on this vulnerability, please see our previous
article:
/usr/bin/mail OpenBSD Local Root Compromise (Escaping Tilde)

Posadis DNS server is a simple DNS server designed for Win32 and Linux, which
will support administration through a web interface. The log_print function is
badly written allowing an attacker to cause a format string vulnerability in
the product or overflow an internal buffer causing a buffer overflow
vulnerability, both these allow remote code execution. The following are
exploit codes that can be used by administrators to test their for the
mentioned vulnerabilities.

GNU Awk (gawk) is a pattern scanning and processing language and implementation
of the AWK programming language. An exploitable stack overflow has been found
in the product that allows attackers to execute arbitrary code by overflowing
its internal buffers.
It is possible for a local user under the FreeBSD operating system to execute a
suid application with its stdin, stdout, or stderr closed. The following
exploit code can be used to test your system against the mentioned
vulnerability.
for more information about the vulnerability please see: Suid Application
Execution May Give Local Root.

psyBNC has a problem dealing with oversized passwords, making it possible to tie
up all the connection slots and consume a lot of CPU on the server.

Matu FTP is a Japanese FTP client software for Win32 Platform. An exploitable
buffer overflow problem has been found. The buffer overflow allows execution of
arbitrary code.
XTux Arena is a client server network game for X11 featuring open-source
mascots. Players can compete in a multiplayer death match mode (called holy
war) or play against the computer (cooperative multiplayer supported) in a
mission against Microsoft. A security vulnerability in the product allows
remote attackers to cause a denial of service attack against the product.

MTR is a network diagnostic tool that combines 'ping' and 'traceroute' into one
program. A security vulnerability in the product allows execution of arbitrary
code, and gaining of elevated privileges. It should be noted that MTR's author
does not recommend that the program be executed a setuid "root".

Citadel/UX is an advanced client/server BBS program for operating highly
interactive sites, both on the Internet and over dialup. Users can connect to
Citadel/UX using any of telnet, WWW, or "client software". Among the features
supported are public and private message bases (rooms), electronic mail,
real-time chat, paging, etc. The server is multithreaded and can easily support
a large number of concurrent users. In addition, SMTP and POP3 servers are
built-in for easy connection to Internet mail. Citadel/UX is both robust and
mature, having been developed over the course of the past twelve years. A
buffer overflow in the product allows an attacker to cause a denial of service
attack against the product.

SunSolve CD access CGIs allows remote attackers to cause the CGI to execute
arbitrary code by inputting it a specially crafted HTTP request.

phpBB is a high powered, fully scalable, and highly customizable forums package.
phpBB has a user-friendly interface, simply and straight-forward administration
panel, and helpful FAQ. The only way to get rid of your problem is to use the
term which follows in the input form: "mephisto". More security bugs are known.
A security vulnerability in the product allows attackers to cause it to execute
arbitrary code by including an external file (by causing 'include' directive to
URL reference a file instead of using the normal directory access).

As we reported in our previous article: Buffer Overflow in /bin/login, a
security vulnerability in the product allows remote attackers to cause an
overflow in the /bin/login binary causing it to execute arbitrary code, thus
allowing gaining of arbitrary privileges.

As we reported in our previous article: Double Free Bug in Zlib Compression
Library, a security vulnerability in Zlib allows attackers to cause the program
to incorrectly double free a memory section causing a "denial of service attack".
The following is an example of an exploit that can be used against "OpenSSH".

LogWatch is a customizable, pluggable log-monitoring system. It will go through
your logs for a given period and make a report in the areas that you wish with
the detail that you wish. Easy to use - works right out of the package on
almost all systems. This is like DailyScript, but much, much better... and
designed for RHL5. A /tmp race condition in the product can be used by local
attackers to gain "root" privileges.

A security vulnerability in "Oracle9i" ("Unbreakable") Database Server has been
found, the vulnerability would allow remote attackers to cause the server's
TSNLISTEN service to crash disallowing any legitimate requests from being
handled by the remote server.

There is a remotely exploitable buffer overflow in all versions of the ICECast
MP3 streaming server. The vulnerability can be tested against by utilizing the
below exploit code.

"Tarantella Enterprise" has been found to contain a permissions problem on some of
its temporary files that are used during the installation process. This would
allow an attacker to gain elevated privileges.

###########
